This question relates to the
concerns of Buddhist practitioners when they go to practice Buddhism. If they offer
little alms but eat and drink at the temple, will they
lose merit? Now, let's talk
about people who don't make offerings but come to the temple to
practice. If they don't have money to make offerings, will they gain merit?
And
how should they practice to gain merit if they don't
have money to make offerings? Do you understand this, Venerable Thich Thien? Then,
Thinh will guide the
congregation: Regarding the Three Jewels, be respectful;
regarding the Buddha, be respectful;
regarding the Sangha, be respectful; regarding the Buddha's teachings,
listen and
practice. That's what we gain. Receiving food and offerings from others creates merit;
we make Bodhi vows and practice. Through many lifetimes,
we practice Bodhicitta. The practice of Bodhicitta is a
virtuous deed to benefit sentient beings, so we
don't lose merit. Don't go to the temple to
listen to Dharma teachings without contemplating the Dharma;
living with the congregation is truly pointless.
So, if at the Three Jewels
we don't make offerings and we consume the food and drinks offered
by lay devotees, Buddhist practitioners...  We
must
partake in the offerings and donations from the lay devotees. Going to the
temple isn't about bringing money; lay
people don't pay money to the
temple. So what do we use to repay the
offerings? It's about strictly adhering to the precepts
and regulations of the temple. That's enough for
us to dedicate the merit to the giver, the teacher, and
us, understood? No profit, no profit to the giver.
If we come to the temple and don't abide by the
temple's regulations and violate the
precepts, then what we
consume will remain as insignificant as Mount Sumeru,
never running out. If we come to the temple because of
poverty, illness, or disease, and squander our wealth,
then we are not practicing; we are only benefiting
more sentient beings, and our karma is becoming
heavier. It does
n't disappear, does it? The
offerings from the congregation are
not counted. That merit is enjoyed
differently. But the strict observance of the precepts is what matters. A
Buddhist who comes to the temple to practice meritorious deeds
must strictly observe the precepts of a lay
Buddhist disciple. Only then can we
partake in the offerings of others,
and others will receive blessings from
us.  Every day,
the monks dedicate their merits to the temple. What is dedication? It's about
dedicating the blessings of each person
to those who make
offerings to the temple. Even if they are
tourists and drop a coin
here, that money transforms into food,
shelter, a fan, and all the other things for
us to enjoy. If we observe the
precepts, we dedicate our merits to them,
and we don't owe them anything. We can also dedicate our merits to
our guardians and masters. That's
why going to the temple to practice requires strict adherence to the
Buddha's precepts and adherence to the
temple's rules. This way, you won't lose merit and won't harm
sentient beings. But if you don't strictly observe the precepts and practice the temple
's regulations, you will both lose merit and harm sentient beings. Do you
understand, everyone?
So, those who come to
Ba Vang Temple to practice shouldn't worry about whether they have
money or not. If you don't have money, just
bring your body to the temple to practice. When you
're at the temple, don't
sit around talking nonsense while the teacher is giving the Dharma lecture. When you're doing your duty, you're practicing.
When you're
doing your duty, you're practicing.  Remember the precepts and
regulations of the temple and the Dharma center, and practice
accordingly. Let's
encourage each other, and we will gain merit. Even if we eat
ten kilograms of rice at each meal, it won't diminish our merit. We're
not even eating; it's just nourishing
our bodies. We're not being greedy. Eating
alms isn't called greed. A
small stomach eats one bowl, a
large stomach eats 100 bowls, and it's not called greed. It's
about eating enough to satisfy our needs, not greed.
Firstly, we eat alms,
meaning we're eating something that's not illegal. Secondly, we're eating according to the rules. Thirdly,
we eat without worry.
Don't hoard food and take it home to eat; that's what
thieves do.
Do you understand? The monks only give us three meals a day at the designated
place. Taking a cake and carrying it in your pocket at night to
eat is stealing, and you'll suffer karmic retribution. Beings who
don't give alms to
us are stealing food.
Do you understand? Therefore, we should
n't eat even a single cake when we don't eat at the right
time. Eating at the wrong time is like eating stolen food; if
we make a vow to eat in a certain way, then we should
eat exactly as we've vowed.  Is that clear? The
monks eat as they please,
whenever they are allowed to eat, and we lay
Buddhists eat whenever we are allowed to.
Because today the temple is holding a feast, we can eat
as much as we want. We can eat until we finish everything and
then ask for more, it's okay
because we're allowed to eat freely. So if the monks
said today we could only eat one plate, and that's all there was, then
we would have to share.
But today the monks said to eat as
much as we can, and if we ask for more,
we just need to be ethical. So, when you
come to the temple to practice,
make offerings with a sincere heart, in accordance
with the precepts and regulations, so you don't
lose merit.
[Music]
Oh